All right.
We have added colors to our sisters tool belt.
What's next.
Our next topic is very interesting because it will control the layout of our project.
So my friends let's get to know units in CSX and we'll start with something called pixels.
Here's the kicker though in order to cover units we're going to have to use them on some properties.
Otherwise we might as well look at the slides for the next three hours.
So let's quickly learn three properties in the CSX font size width and height if you would have to guess.
What do you think these properties control.
Well if I would have to go out on a limb I would say font size is responsible for the size of our fonts
more text and width and height would control the width and height of the elements.
So far so good.
What about pixels.
Well again we can spend two hours and 20 slides or we can resolve it in one sentence answer where pixel
is an absolute unit of measurement.
And speaking very broadly one pixel represents one dot on a screen.
So as you're looking at the screen right now one pixel is basically going to be wonder.
And again this is speaking very broadly because I don't want to spend two hours in line.
Now let's test it out because this is just going to be the easiest way to understand it.
Now as you can see by the way I cleaned everything out in this assassination email because for this
new section I would like to start fresh.
Now again I'm going gonna do very simply where there's gonna be heading one and I'm just gonna say units
in the C assess in the.
So that's gonna be my text and the moment I finish typing.
Awesome.
We have our heading one.
Now I'm gonna head over back to the styles.
We're going to test our first property which would be font size so we know that we can select it in
multiple ways and in my case I'm just gonna pick the elements selected then I'm gonna write.
What kind of font size I would like.
So I'm gonna say font size.
This is gonna be my property and now I'm using the values and as you can see there's many options that
right now Visual Studio code gives us.
But what we are interested is the pixel.
So you're gonna say that let's say this is gonna be 30 pixel NOT CHECK THIS OUT THE MONITOR we're gonna
save it.
This is in fact gonna get smaller knock.
What if we're going to write 60 pixel.
Now my font size is gonna get WAY bigger because I added this absolute value.
Now why did I say that pixels are absolute values of measurement.
Well you see 60 pixels right now what we have here is gonna be 60 pixels here as well as going to be
60 pixels on a different screen.
So the 60 pixels or pixels in general are not going to depend on anything else you're just gonna come
up with your absolute size whatever that might be and then you're just gonna go with.
Now later on as we're looking for Responsive values you'll see how with responsive values we will gonna
be depending on other things.
But with pixels This is just gonna be straight up give me the value for the pixels and these are gonna
be dots on a screen and let's say for the font size it's one thing.
No.
What about the width.
Let's say what if we're gonna say some and with and for the setting one.
Again let me write it properly.
Let's say with is gonna be had I know 200 pixel.
Now let me save it and check this out first of all we can already see that something changed.
So our text basically wrapped to a new light however maybe visually it would be easier if we would use
the color.
So how we can use the color.
Well we already covered this right.
So we had the background and let's say let's go with some kind of color.
Again I'm gonna go with the color name because I find it much more easier.
So I'm gonna say blue and as you can see right now I'm having my in one that is two hundred pixels wide.
And again it would look 200 pixels on a small screen as well as this is gonna be two hundred pixels
on a bigger screen.
So again it's not gonna depend on any parent elements any root elements anything like that.
This is just gonna be straight up value that we're giving you want more with Oh here you go.
I have four 400 pixels.
This is not what I wanted but let me say it properly.
Now this is gonna be 400 pixels again depending on the screen size if I'm going gonna say that this
is gonna be let's say thousand now.
So this is gonna be wrapping up so now we actually need to scroll because this is literally going to
be a thousand pixels so on a smaller screen now.
This is not going to be able to fit in the screen.
However if we move to the bigger screen size everything is working fine.
This is gonna be our thousand pixel.
Now let's test it out.
Also maybe the height and you know what.
Let's change this one too decent 400.
That's gonna stay the same.
So let's say it or you know 400 is still to make.
Let's do 200.
That's gonna be our value and let's maybe add some kind of height and for height we're going to be looking
for height property again.
And in this case we're going to go with 300 pixels.
And again all of these are very straightforward.
You want bigger size.
Just go with bigger size.
Now you don't have to always use pixels.
We will going to cover all the relative values.
However the main importance is to understand that the font size is going to control the height of the
text.
So the bigger obviously the value here the bigger is going to be the text smaller the value you get
an idea.
Now the same would work with with.
Again we're going to be working later on with responsive values.
But you just need to pass some kind of unit here.
In our case we're using the absolute values.
So everything that's showing on a small screen is going to look exactly the same on a bigger screen.
You want different height different height.
You want that different with.
Go ahead had different width and just as a straightforward has it gets.